# Essay 2: Analyzing Arguments in Letters to the Editor

## Letter 2 by Isabel Fierman

Letter 2 by Isabel Fierman is an inductive argument characterized by appeal to emotion. The basic argument is that the policymakers of a policy extending retirement age are failing to consider unhappy employed older adults who would have to endure more suffering if they had to work for longer (since the retirement age was extended). The argument in list form is as follows:
1.  Most employed older adults are not working in jobs which make them happy
2.  The policymakers think that most employed older adults are working in jobs which make them happy
3.  Employed older adults unhappy with their jobs will have to endure more of their job if policymakers are allowed to extend the retirement age, which will make them less happy
4.  Happiness should be the focus on policies
5.  Therefore, policymakers should not be allowed to extend the retirement age since its a matter of survival

The argument is weak as I have rendered it since the premises do not prove that survival is at risk if retirement is extended, and is thus not cogent either. Some fallacies I have identified in the letter include: a straw man since the policymakers probably don’t think the masses of the working people are in “cozy, cushy, interesting, challenging, well-paying jobs…”, an ad hominem circumstantial since it criticizes the idea of extending the retirement age by attacking the credibility of the policymakers through reference to the strawman, but not the idea itself, and missing the point by the unwarranted jump from older adults suffering from continuing to work to it being a "matter of survival". The straw man likely occurred since the editor could not see a foreseeable explanation for the opinion of the policymakers other than that they didn't understand the struggles of older adults in bad jobs, and in fact could only consider their well-paying, interesting, etc. jobs. This is understandable, however, policymakers rarely enact policies for no reason, and thus I think using this argument is at the least misleading towards the true intentions of the policymakers. The ad hominem circumstantial likely occurred for a somewhat circular reason. The reason she attacks the policymakers in the first line of the letter is for the straw man previously mentioned, but it is then used to conclude that the policymakers should never be allowed to extend the retirement age. This is circular since she wrote the ad hominem against the policymakers based on the rest of her argument which relies on the weakened credibility of the policymakers created by the ad hominem. Finally, missing the point likely happened simply to give her argument more strength and magnitude since the more accurate conclusion of "it's a matter of well being to so many" is much less convincing, especially if it has to be compared with the benefits of extending retirement.

## Letter 51 by Matt Cookson

Letter 51 by Matt Cookson is an inductive argument which makes the essential argument that the police should be able to violate an individual's right to privacy when there is any potential for a threat to society. The argument in list form is as follows:

1. A police department's need to protect the public at large outweighs a suspect's right to privacy
2. Areas which can contain major threats to society should be able to be searched despite violations of the right to privacy
3. Backyards can contain major threats to society, including cocaine, illegal weapons, etc.
4. Therefore, backyards should be searched regardless of violations of the right to privacy
5. Since the case in Florida is an instance of a backyard being searched regardless of violations of the right to privacy, the search was just

The argument is strong since it is likely that, if you believe the premises, that the conclusion is also true. However, it is not cogent since areas which could potentially contain major threats to society should not be able to be searched in violation of the right to privacy. If this were true, then there would essentially be no situations in which the right to privacy could even apply since most protected areas can theoretically contain small nukes or similarly dangerous items which could pose massive damages. If one truly believe this, then we would advocate for an extremely strong surveillance state which constantly engages in remote searches of homes to ensure such nukes don't exist. Even if this is an exaggeration, I think most people could easily find that this view is inconsistent. The argument commits several fallacies. First, it engages in something between an ad hominem abusive and an appeal to the people by indirectly attacking people who disagree with him by lumping them in with the fictitious "Anti-Common Logic Union" which encourages the reader to agree with him in the goal to not be seen as having no common logic, as well as attacking the other side without logic. Second, I would argue that he engages in an accident by his own admission, since he argues that large dangers to society should be searched for and prosecuted for the "greater good" and then admits that marijuana can barely be considered dangerous. Finally, he engages in a red herring since he mentions that anything could have been in the backyard, including illegal weapons. Given that this is not what actually occurred in the discussed case, and that the suspect was thought to potentially be dealing drugs, the *potential* for the illegal weapon would have been impossible for the police to know about, and is thus quite irrelevant in this example. The ad hominem abusive and appeal to the people likely occurred due to the presence of the other fallacies he engaged in which made the other side seem even less justified in his mind. For example, the idea *maybe there was an illegal weapon stash! who could justify not checking just in case?* would be an example of a potential thought that could arise from the other fallacies. It is also rhetorically powerful since it emotionally targets the reader's insecurity over their intelligence and the desire to not be seen as having no common sense. The accident occurs in conjunction with the red herring, where both are used as a method to demonstrate the potential for a situation with similar characteristics in which many would be happy the suspect was caught. For example, if the police did violate someone's right to privacy and found a thermonuclear bomb in someone's backyard that was set to 3 minutes from now, people wouldn't be all that concerned about the violation of that person's rights.