Consequentialism is non-discrete to the extent that there are not "moral" or "immoral" actions, but there are a wide variety, potentially infinite, actions moral agents can take which each have varying levels of morality. The act of classification requires that this range of morality be made binary -- either moral, or immoral. This poses complications, and failing to understand this can lead to unusual results in its application. Thus, some sort of quantization must be used to convert continuous moral systems into discrete ones for the purpose of classifying actions as moral or immoral. The only imaginable alternative is to avoid using those terms altogether in their conventional sense, and to use terms like "more moral than", "one of the most moral ways to deal with this is...", etc.

### Quantization Methods
#### Below/Above Average (Not Recommended)
This seems like it could be a good idea in practice, but is difficult to justify when coming to specifics. If average is meant to mean the action the average moral agent would take, then common moral actions (for example, seeing a deer in the road and swerving around it) are morally neutral, or at least are in the middle of what is morally appropriate. Other definitions or ways to calculate the average are similarly untenable or are extremely impractical or impossible to use in the real world. This means they should be discarded (see [[the balance between moral systems and intuition#Why Moral Systems Are Still Useful this is not inconsistent with Moral Nihilism]]).
##### Side Note
This is also problematic since it means morality is tied to status quo conceptions of morality and essentially locks you into moral relativism. For example, in times where slavery was widespread in America, owning a slave would likely be seen as morally neutral which intuitively not a very good conception in the modern day.
#### Anything But the Best (Not Recommended Most of the Time)
This was my initial perspective on the issue, and is likely what you assume is how Consequentialism is meant to be used if you do not realize the continuous nature of the system. In this system, only the best moral action is the moral, and anything else is immoral. It is problematic since it has very unintuitive implications for morality. For example, if I don't spend enough time on my math homework tonight, have I committed an immoral action against myself since it will likely cause me less pleasure in the future when I have to cram to finish it? Most people would find it dubious that one can commit immoral actions towards themselves, let alone the low magnitude of the issue. However, spending adequate time on your homework probably is the best thing to do in terms of maximizing happiness, and thus not doing it would be immoral. It sounds ridiculous, but this is often the go-to method in decision-making contexts. For example, in competitive debate, anything below the best method offered in the debate is seen as immoral, particularly because they can be expressed negatively relative to the best solution. In a lethal autonomous weapons debate, one team might argue that they prevent soldiers from dying on the battlefield while another might argue they cause even more deaths towards innocent people abroad. Both sides could be seen as having moral justifications, however, when I say "Team A's plan would kill 25% more people than Team B", then Team A's plan is clearly immoral. You would likely agree, even to the point where Team A kills only a few less than Team B. For decision-making contexts where only the best option is being sought out, it is the simplest method requiring the least effort to use.
#### Personal Side Note
This was my original conception of why Utilitarianism cannot be used in non-decision-making contexts, but it probably can be used when this quantization method is not used. Additionally, application of this logic can be observed in [[The Nonzero Degrees of Racism Argument]]
### The Intuition-Based Method
Finally, the only quantization method which is somewhat sound in the context of most real world scenarios where moral/immoral classifications are used seems to be an intuitive method that goes as follows:
1. Consider all the actions that one in that scenario could be expected to take (including the immoral ones)
2. Make an intuitive/arbitrary decision as to where the line should be drawn between morality and immorality such that some are above the line and some below
3. Determine how you classified how the action was actually taken

This seems to fit most people's conception for how a quantization method should work. (include example later). Now, this definitely makes the process optically more arbitrary which goes against one of the main selling points of Consequentialism in that is relies on few assumptions, however, it is probably a necessary evil considering that it goes in line with the non-objective method that is already used in actually carrying out a utilitarian calculation since it is well shown that mathematical methods for calculating utility are no more arbitrary than not using them at all.