var stopAjax = false;   // To active/inactive ajax.
var win=null;           // A reference to the popup document to be printed.
function printDocument() {
    var viewFrame = document.getElementById("viewFrame");
    if (viewFrame != null) {
        viewFrame.focus();
        viewFrame.print();
    }
    else {
        var viewDiv = document.getElementById("docViewer");
        if (viewDiv != null) {
            win = window.open('', '', 'width=789,height=643');
            var html = "<html><head> " +
                "<link type=\"text/css\" rel=\"stylesheet\" href=\"javax.faces.resource/documentPrint.css.xhtml?ln=css\" />" +
                "<link type=\"text/css\" rel=\"stylesheet\" href=\"javax.faces.resource/usc.css.xhtml?ln=css\" />" +
                "<style type=\"text/css\">" +
                "div.documenViewer * {font-size: 12pt; }" +
                "div.documentViewer .note-head { font-size: 13pt; }" +
                "div.documentViewer h3.section-head { font-size: 13pt; }" +
                "</style>" +
                "</head><body>" +
                "<div class=\"documentViewer\">";
            try {
                win.document.writeln(html, viewDiv.innerHTML, "</div></body></html>");
                win.document.close();
                win.focus();
                printPopUp();
            } catch (e) {}
        }
    }
}

// Validates if popup windows is ready to print.
function printPopUp() {
    if (win.document.readyState == 'complete') {
        win.print();
        win.close();
        win = null;
        return;
    }
    setTimeout('printPopUp()',1000);
}

// Print document's selection.
function printSelection() {
    try {
        var userSelection;
        if (window.getSelection) {
            // W3C Ranges
            userSelection = window.getSelection ();
            // Get the range:
            if (userSelection.getRangeAt)
                var range = userSelection.getRangeAt (0);
            else {
                var range = document.createRange ();
                range.setStart (userSelection.anchorNode, userSelection.anchorOffset);
                range.setEnd (userSelection.focusNode, userSelection.focusOffset);
            }
            // And the HTML:
            var clonedSelection = range.cloneContents ();
            var div = document.createElement ('div');
            div.appendChild (clonedSelection);
            html=div.innerHTML;
        } else if (document.selection) {
            // Explorer selection, return the HTML
            userSelection = document.selection.createRange ();
            html=userSelection.htmlText;
        } else {
            html='';
        }

        win = window.open('', '', 'toolbar=0,scrollbars=1,location=0,statusbar=0,menubar=0,resizable=1,width=600,height=520,left = 400,top = 200');

        var htmlb = "<html><head> " +
            "<link type=\"text/css\" rel=\"stylesheet\" href=\"javax.faces.resource/documentPrint.css.xhtml?ln=css\" />" +
            "<link type=\"text/css\" rel=\"stylesheet\" href=\"javax.faces.resource/usc.css.xhtml?ln=css\" />" +
            "<style type=\"text/css\">" +
            "div.documenViewer * {font-size: 12pt; }" +
            "div.documentViewer .note-head { font-size: 13pt; }" +
            "div.documentViewer h3.section-head { font-size: 13pt; }" +
            "</style>" +
            "</head><body>" +
            "<div class=\"documentViewer\">";
        win.document.write(htmlb);
        win.document.write(html);
        win.document.write("</div></body></html>");
        win.document.close();
        win.focus();
        //win.print();
        //win.close();
        printPopUp();

    } catch (e) {
        //TODO: Remove
        alert("Error printing the document");
    }
}

function resize_div()
{
    var height = document.getElementById("container").clientHeight -  document.getElementById("top").clientHeight;
    //resize the iframe according to the size of the
    //window (all these should be on the same line)
    document.getElementById("content").style.height=parseInt(height)+"px";
}

window.onload=onload_event;
window.onresize=onresize_event;

// Called during window's onload event.
function onload_event() {
    try {
        displayBackButton();
		//replaceCurrencyInfo();
        if (!opener.resized) opener.resized = true;
    } catch (e) {}

    resize_div();
}

function replaceCurrencyInfo(){
 var regex = /(Text contains those laws in effect on .*? \d{1,2}, 201\d)/;
 document.body.innerHTML = document.body.innerHTML.replace(regex, "Text contains laws through Pub. L. 113-271, except Pub. L. 113-235");
}


// Resize Div and recalculate window properties.
// opener.resized is null meanwhile is not called.
function onresize_event() {
    try {
        if (!opener.resized) return;

        var myWidth = 0, myHeight = 0;
        var winX = (document.all)?window.screenLeft:window.screenX;
        var winY = (document.all)?window.screenTop:window.screenY;
        if (typeof (window.innerWidth) == 'number') {
            //Non-IE
            myWidth = window.innerWidth;
            myHeight = window.innerHeight;
        } else if (document.documentElement) {
            if (document.documentElement.clientWidth || document.documentElement.clientHeight) {
                //IE 6+ in 'standards compliant mode'
                myWidth = document.documentElement.clientWidth;
                myHeight = document.documentElement.clientHeight;
            }
        } else if (document.body) {
            if (document.body.clientWidth || document.body.clientHeight) {
                //IE 4 compatible
                myWidth = document.body.clientWidth;
                myHeight = document.body.clientHeight;
            }
        }
        // Update windows values in the input html.
        document.getElementById("winTop").value = winY;
        document.getElementById("left").value = winX;
        document.getElementById("width").value = myWidth;
        document.getElementById("height").value = myHeight;

        updateWindowProperties();
    } catch(e) {}

    resize_div();
}

// Update the window properties(size,position).
function updateWindowProperties() {

    // Doesn't execute the code if there's a pending ajax transaction.
    if (stopAjax) return;

    // Save event and called the ajax to do the update.
    stopAjax = true;
    setTimeout("ajaxUpdateProperties()", 500);
}

// Ajax code to update window properties.
function ajaxUpdateProperties() {
    document.getElementById("submitBtn").click();
}

// Each time an ajax request sent back a response verify if it's complete to
// do available the next request.
function ajaxMonitoringEvent(e) {
    if (e.status == 'complete') {
        stopAjax = false;

        // When ajax request is completed, refresh windows properties in the opener object.
        try {
            var parentRefreshBtn = null;
            if (opener.document.getElementById("refreshBtn"))
                parentRefreshBtn = opener.document.getElementById("refreshBtn");
            else
                parentRefreshBtn = opener.parent.document.getElementById("refreshBtn");
            parentRefreshBtn.click();
        } catch(e) {}
    }
}

// Open a document based on section/title found in an uscode standard reference.
function openDocument(section, title, chapter) {
    var q = '';
    var input = document.getElementById("j_idt30:formResults:versionsSel");
    var editionValue = input.options[input.selectedIndex].value;
    if (section != '' && title != '')
        q = '?req=(title:' + title + ' section:' + section +' edition:' + editionValue + ') OR (granuleid:USC-'+ editionValue + '-title' + title + '-section' + section + ')&f=treesort' + '&num=0';
    else if (chapter != '' && title != '')
        q = '?req=(title:' + title + ' chapter:' + chapter +' edition:' + editionValue + ') OR (granuleid:USC-'+ editionValue + '-title' + title + '-chapter' + chapter + ')&f=treesort' + '&num=0';
    else if (title != '')
        q = '?req=(title:' + title +' edition:' + editionValue + ')&f=treesort';
    else
        return false;

    //alert(q);

    // Store the location of the original document.
	//@mod 2019-07-17 added check for null opener so internal USC links will still work on direct link URLs from other sites.
	if (opener != null){
     if (!opener.originURL)
      opener.originURL = location.href;
	}

    this.location.href='view.xhtml' + q  + '&edition=' + editionValue;
}

// Called on onlick method of Back to Original document button,
// replace current url with opener's url.
function backToOpener() {
    var url = opener.originURL;
    opener.originURL=null;
    window.location.href=url;
    return false;
}

// Called on onload method to make visible the Back to Original document button.
function displayBackButton() {
    if (opener.originURL) {
        var backBtn = document.getElementById("frmNav:backBtn");
        if (backBtn) {
            backBtn.className="";
            backBtn.style.visibility="visible";
            backBtn.style.display="block";
            backBtn.onclick=backToOpener;
        }
    }
}

//Open a PopUp with url sent as parameter and the same current window dimension.
function openPopUp(url) {
    var prefs = "top=" + document.getElementById("winTop").value +
                ",left=" + document.getElementById("left").value +
                ",width=850" +
                ",height=350" +
                ",resizable=1";
    window.open(url,'',prefs);
}

var stdRef=null;  // Get a reference to the last ajax call to get std reference url.
function openPLaw(congress, number) {
    var parentObj = getPLawOpener();
    if (parentObj!=null) {
        parentObj.getPublicLaw(congress, number, "law");
        stdRef=setTimeout("validateURL()",500);
    }
}

function openStatute(volume, page) {
    var parentObj = getPLawOpener();
    if (parentObj!=null) {
        parentObj.getPublicLaw(volume, page, "statute");
        stdRef=setTimeout("validateURL()",500);
    }
}

//Get reference to object that contains function:getPublicLaw.
function getPLawOpener() {
    if (opener.getPublicLaw)
        return opener;
    else if (opener.top.getPublicLaw)
        return opener.top;
    else if (opener.opener.getPublicLaw)
        return opener.opener;
    else
        return null;
}
