* Deep learning is used to approximate the value function of a RL system (MC, TD, etc.)
	* TD RL approximations are not guaranteed to converge
* In the middle of TD and Monte Carlo is n-Step Prediction which is like temporal-difference learning except we might consider the discounted value of multiple steps ahead
	* The $G_t$ of a state in normal TD is $R_{t+1} + \gamma V(S_{t+1})$, and is $G_t^{(n)}=R_{t+1}+\gamma R_{t+2}+\cdots+\gamma^{(n-1)} R_{t+n}+\gamma^n V\left(S_{t+n}\right)$ for n-step prediction. If n is the same as the max possible steps, you are doing MC
	* The value function is updated with $V\left(S_t\right) \leftarrow V\left(S_t\right)+\alpha\left(G^{(n)}{ }_t-V\left(S_t\right)\right)$
	* Combinations of $n$ and $\alpha$ significantly affect the performance of TD or MC. It should be noted that MC often does not achieve the lowest error when testing among these combinations at a fixed number of episodes, despite it having the highest $n$ possible. This is since lower values for $n$ converge quicker, but often converge to higher bias.
* In addition, we can average n-step returns among different values for $n$
	* TD($\lambda$) is this, but we average all n-step returns until MC and weigh each n-step evaluation by $\lambda^{n-1}$, effectively discounting high $n$ evaluations.
Using weight $(1-\lambda) \lambda^{n-1}$ :
$$
G_t^\lambda=(1-\lambda) \sum_{n=1}^{\infty} \lambda^{n-1} G_t^{(n)}
$$
* Then, $V\left(S_t\right) \leftarrow V\left(S_t\right)+\alpha\left(G_t^\lambda-V\left(S_t\right)\right)$.
* This sacrifices some error by highly weighing early $n$ values, despite the fact that the sweet stop is usually after a few values for $n$, so that we don't converge super slowly from the high $n$ values.
	* Good values for $\lambda$ typically range from $0.8$ to $0.975$. In the example provided in the slide, it was $0.9$.
	* IDEA: The parameter sweep for this can start from the max (e.g. $0.975$) and decrease the value for lambda by some fixed amount at each step and stop testing once the quadratic fit for the function from lambda to error says the next step would increase.
* Credit assignment is the problem of deciding which states were responsible for the result. In MC, this is based on the frequency that a state appeared in the history of the result (frequency heuristic). It can also be recency, where we credit the most recent states more than older states.
	* Eligibility traces combine the frequency and recency heuristic by adding sharp increments to the "credit graph" each time the state appears, and then applying a decay function between occurrences. This means that if we visited a state a lot at the start, but not often at the end, it will have decayed enough to not receive much credit, if at all. On the other hand, a state visited a lot near the end will not have decayed much and thus get a lot of credit. 
* A disadvantage of Forward-view TD-lambda (described above) is that, like MC, it doesn't support bootstrapping and requires complete episodes. Thus, it doesn't have much of a real-world use
	* The alternative is backward/mechanistic-view TD-lambda
		* Forward-view is the model, the implementation solves this problem with eligibility traces which adds another factor to the value update formula:
			* $\delta_t=R_{t+1}+\gamma V\left(S_{t+1}\right)-V\left(S_t\right)$, $V(s) \leftarrow V(s)+\alpha \delta_t E_t(s)$ where $E_t(s)$ is the eligibility trace function.
			* TD(0) under this model is the same between forward and backward-view
			* The sum of offline updates is identical for forward-view and backward-view TD-lambda since they both converge to the true value function
* Model-based policy evaluation & control is solved with dynamic programming
* Model-free policy evaluation is solved with MC, TD
* Model-free control is used when the MDP model is unknown, but  experience can be sampled or when the MDP model is known, but is too big to use without sampling.
* On-policy learning means the model is learning while executing (it is learning about its own policy while executing it), while off-policy learning observes another policy to create its own
* Greedy policy improvement over the value function often can't be used because it requires a model of the MDP and might not learn high value states because it is greedy, but greedy policy improvement over the action-value ($Q(s,a)$) function is model-free and can be used (still greedy)
	* The greediness of this can be abated by, with some probability, going down low-value paths. This is epsilon-greedy
		* The probability we choose the greedy action is $1 - \epsilon$ and the probability we choose an action at random is $\epsilon$. 
		* It is provably the case that the epsilon-greedy policy will be at least as good as the greedy policy
* Monte-Carlo Policy Iteration on the action-value function using epsilon-greedy policy improvement is both model-free and abates the issues of purely greedy policy improvement. This is the simplest way to handle control for model-free environments
	* GLIE is Greedy in the Limit with Infinite Exploration and means that if you evaluate every state-action pair infinitely many times, you will converge to a greedy policy.
		* Epsilon-greedy improvement is GLIE so long as epsilon reduces to 0 at $\epsilon_k = \frac{1}{k}$ where $k$ is a step of policy improvement.
			* The algorithm implementing this is called GLIE Monte-Carlo control. For each state and action in the episode, we increment the counter for that pair by 1 and update the action-value function with $Q\left(S_t, A_t\right) \leftarrow Q\left(S_t, A_t\right)+\frac{1}{N\left(S_t, A_t\right)}\left[G_t-G\left(S_t, A_t\right)\right]$.