## Team: Davis Davalos-DeLosh
*from last proposal...*
> [Futhark](https://futhark-lang.org/) is a purely functional, research programming language which aims to be highly performant through heavy optimization and efficient generation of GPU code. Because the language is GPU-oriented, it lacks many ordinary features (such as recursion or references) since they cannot be used efficiently in the programming model it imposes. Because of this, there exist very few, if any, non-trivial data structures in the language.
> 
> Despite these limitations, Futhark supports [uniqueness types](https://futhark-lang.org/blog/2022-06-13-uniqueness-types.html) which are a kind of linear typing which allow for heavily-restricted in-place mutation of some types of data (at least records and arrays). Because of this, I think a data structure could still practically be made in the language.

Many data structures do not have an obvious array representation, or are often simply impossible to implement when applying the restrictions above. The most problematic examples of this are persistent data structures. If we imagine a linked list, we could naively implement it as an array of tuples containing values and indices to the next elements. However, what happens if we want to append another list to this structure? We might need to recreate the array to accommodate the additional size, and then deal with the ramifications of the indices of the appended list being offset incorrectly. This is significantly less efficient than a solution where we can avoid doing so many copies and iterations, especially since we aren't taking advantage of any uniqueness guarantees we have about old values.

The lack of recursive type definitions also makes data structures a lot trickier, and often forces you into the array-based route. For example, a linked list cannot be implemented inductively as is commonly done in functional programming languages, and porting data structures requires considerable effort and thought.

It turns out there is a solution to both of these problems which makes writing data structures substantially easier in Futhark -- memory blocks. While we don't have access to allocation primitives or other memory management mechanisms, they can be implemented on top of the preexisting language if you realize that arrays are just subsections of memory, and that pointers are just indices into that subsection. Once this is introduced, developers can simply use pointers (simple indices) atop the memory blocks (just arrays of bytes) to solve the above problems. For example, a persistent linked list can now be trivially implemented as a record containing a pointer to the next node and it's value, and as long as code interacting with the linked list also has access to the memory block, it can be treated like a regular linked list.

From a library design perspective, this has the chance of becoming quite annoying to use if you have to explicitly pass the underlying memory array to every function requiring access to the data structure. While it doesn't inherently cost performance, it is at least more verbose than it should be. Given this, I would also investigate the feasability of hiding behind a monad implemented with Futhark's parametric modules.

In total, depending on how far I get, I would like to implement the memory blocks (easy), a allocator/deallocator (ideally exploiting parallelism, hard), fast serializers/deserializers to and from bytes (medium), a monadic wrapper for the memory block API (medium/hard since the uniqueness types definitely pose a threat for this being implemented easily), and a couple PoC persistent data structures which would be very difficult to implement otherwise (linked list, binary search tree, and if I'm really feeling ambitious, a HAMT). If successful, this would be a significant contribution to Futhark and could potentially enable performance tricks which would otherwise be impossible to achieve.

## References
[1] T. Henriksen, “Should we ban recursive functions from Futhark? · Issue #273 · diku-dk/futhark,” GitHub, Jan. 11, 2017. https://github.com/diku-dk/futhark/issues/273 (accessed Oct. 03, 2022).

[2] DIKU, “Uniqueness Types and In-Place Updates,” Jun. 13, 2022. https://futhark-lang.org/blog/2022-06-13-uniqueness-types.html (accessed Oct. 03, 2022).