To assess this, we can first consider the immediate actors involved and how they affected by it. A person of lower socioeconomic status and opportunity associated with their race is likely to experience considerable pleasure in being accepted to a university, and their family may have the potential to rise in quality of life due to the higher paying jobs that university can often entail. This really only works in conjunction with substantial financial aid, and needs to be weighed against their increased likelihood of dropping out or lack of success since they were accepted despite having an academic background which was likely statistically shown to be linked to less success. Despite this, it seems like the inability to attempt college is worse than failure after getting into college, so long as there isn't a significant financial buy-in. For the person who is rejected despite having greater credentials, they experience the impact of unfairness discussed in [[morality of unfairness]] which probably weighs quite heavily against the benefits for the accepted person. Despite this, most rejected people probably don't link into [[morality of unfairness]] since they aren't told or don't know if they were rejected on the basis of affirmative action. Because of this, they likely only experience the basic displeasure with being rejected. On the assumption that acceptance is usually more essential for people benefited by affirmative action, it seems like there is a general trend towards it being moral.