In left-leaning communities there is often the notion that hierarchies *ontologically* implicate members of higher tiers of privilege as being racist/sexist, etc. This blank state of moral debt is then ameliorated, but never eliminated by taking anti-racist action which is often difficult or impossible to achieve within one's actual place of power (e.g. eliminating discriminatory hierarchies within your place of work). This is essentially equivalent to the realizations made in [[the non-discrete nature of Consequentialism]], and is quite similar to the "Anything But the Best" quantization method described there. I will draw a few implications from the parallel below:

1. It is fine in decision-making contexts, but is improper for assigning guilt/responsibility to someone since it places an unreasonable burden on the average person
2. In the context of Consequentialism, pointing out that it is unintuitive is a sound argument for reasons discussed in [[the balance between moral systems and intuition#A Base Level Moral Nihilist Argument]], but for racism/sexism, it being unintuitive is valid for reasons discussed in [[argument from use-theory of meaning]], especially when it is used in non-academic contexts

However, the parallel is far stronger than the continuous vs. discrete distinction since they both are moral issues. In the case of racism, the "Anything But the Best" quantization means inaction is inherently immoral since there is likely an action which could be taken to ameliorate some instances of racism. Similar to the conclusion made in [[the non-discrete nature of Consequentialism]], I will claim that this interpretation of racism is appropriate for decision-making purposes only, but is wholly inappropriate when it comes to arguing towards the culpability of individuals:

#### "Anything But the Best" Culpability
This argument is completely unintuitive after any ounce of thought is put into it. If you asked most people, including holders of this belief, whether they thought that racist actions should have consequences for the agents undertaking them, they would surely agree. However, this would immediately implicate the entirety of the human race since there is no one person who is constantly taking the perfect anti-racist action at any given time. It is quite similar to the not-doing-your-homework example presented in [[the non-discrete nature of Consequentialism]] and is a complete misuse of language when practiced

#### Unjustified Reliance on Hierarchy
As mentioned in the introduction, higher tiers of racial privilege have inherent moral debt which must be ameliorated to become less racist, however, there is no real justification for any tier to have any more moral debt than another, but is merely an exception to make the argument less ridiculous than what the core idea presents. The core idea is that inaction towards racism is immoral since one can always take action against racism, but there is no reason why disenfranchised peoples cannot also participate. However, do people who are Black, Asian, etc. have moral debt on the account of their inaction towards racism? Very few could persuasively argue that Black people have inherent racism on their hands on the account of their inaction.

#### The Issue of the Responsibility
Proponents of the idea are likely to point out that if their theory of racism is incorrect, the outcome is that white people and those higher in the hierarchy of racial power are absolved of their responsibility to support those lower in the hierarchy. This seems like a valid argument, but I would try to think of real-world examples where the abstraction of hierarchy is not being considered, and actual interactions are focused upon. A white man who consistently (unjustly) underpays his women or Black employees is responsible for reducing that inequity, but not on account of his race. Would a Black man be justified in underpaying other Black employees? A white man who is unproblematic in every conventional sense of the word who is kind and fair to all he interacts with is placed on the same hierarchy as the other white man exploiting marginalized classes in his place of power. This is one example, however, I think it easy to see that the real-world impacts of racism are not carried out, at least definitionally, in a racially hierarchical structure, and to do so is to create a overly strict sense of racism which fails to identify that racism within races exists, among many exceptions to the rule. This paints a problematic picture when used in the real world, and conflates systematic racism with racism. When this hierarchy is deconstructed, the issue of responsibility becomes quite simple and can be assessed using any conventional moral framework. The same way that you are likely not responsible for the socioeconomic conditions leading to famine in third world countries by not donating the maximal extent of your funds to charity, you are not inherently responsible for racism that other moral agents took out or take out on others. Does this mean that you should not aim to reduce racism in your society? No, but it is certainly ridiculous to make claims towards the responsibilities of large, diverse swathes of people.