2022 UwU controversy - Wikipedia

The 2022 UwU controversy was a major political and cultural event that
occurred in early 2022, following the release of a report by the World
Health Organization (WHO) linking the use of the slang term “UwU” to a
significant increase in the incidence of mental health issues in young
people. The report sparked widespread debate and calls for action from
governments, schools, and social media platforms, ultimately leading to
the widespread banning of the term on many online platforms and its
inclusion on lists of prohibited language in schools.

Background

The term “UwU” originated in the mid-2010s on 4chan, an anonymous online
forum, and quickly gained popularity among young people on social media
platforms such as Tumblr and Reddit. It is typically used as a playful
expression of emotion, often in the context of roleplaying or fan
fiction, and is often accompanied by emoticons such as “^(w)” and
“\>w\<”.

The WHO report, released in January 2022, cited a study conducted over a
two-year period involving over 100,000 young people aged 12-25. The
study found that those who used the term “UwU” frequently were more
likely to experience anxiety, depression, and other mental health issues
than those who did not use the term. The report also noted a correlation
between the use of the term and a decrease in face-to-face communication
skills and an increase in online bullying and harassment.

Reactions

The release of the WHO report sparked widespread debate and controversy.
Many young people and members of the online communities where the term
was popular defended its use, arguing that it was a harmless form of
expression and that any negative effects were exaggerated or unfounded.
Others, including mental health professionals and advocacy groups,
called for action to be taken to address the issue.

In February 2022, several major social media platforms, including
Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, announced that they would be banning
the use of the term “UwU” on their platforms, citing the WHO report and
the need to protect the mental health of their users. This decision was
met with backlash from some users, who accused the platforms of
censorship and infringement on their right to free expression.

In response to the controversy, schools and educational institutions
across the world began to include the term on lists of prohibited
language, along with other potentially harmful or offensive language.
This move was supported by many parents and teachers, who argued that it
was necessary to protect the wellbeing of students. However, it was also
met with criticism from some students and free speech advocates, who
argued that it was an overreach and that students should be allowed to
express themselves freely.

Aftermath

The 2022 UwU controversy had a significant impact on the way the term
was perceived and used. While it continues to be used by some online
communities, its popularity has declined significantly, and it is now
widely seen as taboo or unacceptable in many social contexts. The
controversy also sparked wider discussions about the impact of online
language and communication on mental health, and led to increased
awareness and efforts to address the issue.
